README.md, before:

# DEFMap: Dynamics Extraction From cryo-em Map

This package provides an implementation of a dynamics prediction from a cryo-EM density map.

<div align="center">
  <img src="./img/DEFMap_summary.jpg">
</div>

## Dependency

### Environment

- Ubuntu: 16.04 or 18.04 (confirmed)

### Package

- *language*: English
- *python*: >3.6
- *keras-gpu*: 2.2.4
- tensorflow-gpu: 1.13.1
- *[htmd](https://software.acellera.com/academic-download-htmd.html)*: 1.15.2
- *[EMAN2](https://blake.bcm.edu/emanwiki/EMAN2)*: 2.3
- Pymol (optional):

## Setup
Please refer to the following [link](doc/setup.md)

## Example usage

### Usage 1: Dynamics Prediciton
DEFMap only uses a cryo-EM map file for dynamics prediction.

- **Scale voxel length and map resolution**

```bash
cd data
e2proc3d.py 015_emd_3984.map 015_emd_3984_5.0A_rescaled.mrc --clip=160,160,160 --scale=0.9 --process=filter.lowpass.gauss:cutoff_freq=0.2
# See the following link for e2proc3d.py options: https://blake.bcm.edu/emanwiki/EMAN2/Programs/e2proc3d
```

- **Create dataset**  

```bash
cd ../preprocessing/
python prep_dataset.py -m ../data/015_emd_3984_5.0A_rescaled.mrc -o ../data/sample.jbl -p
```

- **Inference**

```bash
# It's going to take a while.
python 3dcnn_main.py infer --test_dataset data/sample.jbl -o model/model.h5 --prediction_output result/prediction.jbl
```

The joblib output file contains python dictionary object (key: voxel coordinate, value: logarithm of RMSF).

### Usage 2: Dynamics Prediction and Visualization
For dynamics visualization, DEFMap needs a PDB file corresponding to the cryo-EM map used for inference. 

- **Scale voxel length and map resolution**  
```bash
cd preprocessing
python rescale.py -l ../data/sample_pdb_map.list -s 1.5 -r 5
```

- **Create dataset**  
```bash
python prep_dataset.py -m ../data/015_emd_3984_5.0A_rescaled.mrc -o ../data/sample.jbl -p
```

- **Inference**  

```bash
# It's going to take a while.
python 3dcnn_main.py infer --test_dataset data/sample.jbl -o model/model.h5 --prediction_output result/prediction.jbl
```

- **Visualization**  

First, run the following command to create dynamics-mapped pdb file.
```bash
cd postprocessing
python rmsf_map2model_for_defmap.py -l ../data/sample_for_visual.list -p ../result/prediction.jbl --normalize
```

Then, launch your GUI viewer that can visualize PDB file (in this tutorial, we use PyMol) and open *defmap_norm_model.pdb*.
Finally, run the following command (`spectrum b, slate_orange_red, minimum=-1, maximum=2`) in PyMOL command line, and you can see the following dynamics-mapped protein structure.

<div align="center">
  <img src="img/dynamics_mapped_protein.jpg">
</div>

## License
This package is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Authors
Shigeyuki Matsumoto: shigeyuki.matsumoto@riken.jp  
Shoichi Ishida: ishida.shouichi.57a@st.kyoto-u.ac.jp (maintainer)  

## Reference
```
@article {Matsumoto2020,
  author = {Matsumoto, Shigeyuki and Ishida, Shoichi and Araki, Mitsugu and Kato, Takayuki and Terayama, Kei and Okuno, Yasushi},
  title = {Extraction of Protein Dynamics Information Hidden in Cryo-EM Map Using Deep Learning},
  year = {2020},
  doi = {10.1101/2020.02.17.951863},
  URL = {https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2020/02/18/2020.02.17.951863},
  journal = {bioRxiv}
}
```

Commit message:

feat: add the script for voxel visualization

README.md, after:

# DEFMap: Dynamics Extraction From cryo-em Map

This package provides an implementation of a dynamics prediction from a cryo-EM density map.

<div align="center">
  <img src="./img/DEFMap_summary.jpg">
</div>

## Dependency

### Environment

- Ubuntu: 16.04 or 18.04 (confirmed)

### Package

- *language*: English
- *python*: >3.6
- *keras-gpu*: 2.2.4
- tensorflow-gpu: 1.13.1
- *[htmd](https://software.acellera.com/academic-download-htmd.html)*: 1.15.2
- *[EMAN2](https://blake.bcm.edu/emanwiki/EMAN2)*: 2.3
- Pymol (optional):
- [UCSF Chimera](https://www.cgl.ucsf.edu/chimera/) (optional):

## Setup
Please refer to the following [link](doc/setup.md)

## Example usage

### Usage 1: Dynamics Prediciton and Voxel Visualization
DEFMap only uses a cryo-EM map file for dynamics prediction and voxel visualization.

- **Scale voxel length and map resolution**

```bash
cd data
e2proc3d.py 015_emd_3984.map 015_emd_3984_5.0A_rescaled.mrc --clip=160,160,160 --scale=0.9 --process=filter.lowpass.gauss:cutoff_freq=0.2
# See the following link for e2proc3d.py options: https://blake.bcm.edu/emanwiki/EMAN2/Programs/e2proc3d
```

- **Create dataset**  

```bash
cd ../preprocessing/
python prep_dataset.py -m ../data/015_emd_3984_5.0A_rescaled.mrc -o ../data/sample.jbl -p
```

- **Inference**

```bash
# It's going to take a while.
python 3dcnn_main.py infer --test_dataset data/sample.jbl -o model/model.h5 --prediction_output result/prediction.jbl
```

The joblib output file contains python dictionary object (key: voxel coordinate, value: logarithm of RMSF).

- **Visualization**  
Decide a threshold of the map intensity using like [UCSF Chimera](https://www.cgl.ucsf.edu/chimera/).
Then, voxels with the intensity above the threshold will be selected for visualization.  
In this example, 0.0252 is used as the threshold.

First, run the following command.
```bash
python postprocessing/rmsf_map2grid.py -m ./data/015_emd_3984_5.0A_rescaled.mrc -p result/prediction.jbl -t 0.0252
```
Then, launch your GUI viewer that can visualize PDB file (in this tutorial, we use PyMol) and open 015_emd_3984_5.0A_rescaled.pdb.
Finally, run the following command (`show_as nb_spheres; spectrum b, slate_orange_red, minimum=-1, maximum=2`) in PyMOL command line, and you can see the following picture.

<div align="center">
  <img src="img/dynamics_voxels.jpg">
</div>
### Usage 2: Dynamics Prediction and The Mapping onto Atomic Model
For atomic-level dynamics visualization, DEFMap needs a PDB file corresponding to the cryo-EM map used for inference. 

- **Scale voxel length and map resolution**  
```bash
cd preprocessing
python rescale.py -l ../data/sample_pdb_map.list -s 1.5 -r 5
```

- **Create dataset**  
```bash
python prep_dataset.py -m ../data/015_emd_3984_5.0A_rescaled.mrc -o ../data/sample.jbl -p
```

- **Inference**  

```bash
# It's going to take a while.
python 3dcnn_main.py infer --test_dataset data/sample.jbl -o model/model.h5 --prediction_output result/prediction.jbl
```

- **Visualization**  

First, run the following command to create dynamics-mapped pdb file.
```bash
cd postprocessing
python rmsf_map2model_for_defmap.py -l ../data/sample_for_visual.list -p ../result/prediction.jbl --normalize
```

Then, launch your GUI viewer that can visualize PDB file (in this tutorial, we use PyMol) and open *defmap_norm_model.pdb*.
Finally, run the following command (`spectrum b, slate_orange_red, minimum=-1, maximum=2`) in PyMOL command line, and you can see the following dynamics-mapped protein structure.

<div align="center">
  <img src="img/dynamics_mapped_protein.jpg">
</div>

## License
This package is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Authors
Shigeyuki Matsumoto: shigeyuki.matsumoto@riken.jp  
Shoichi Ishida: ishida.shouichi.57a@st.kyoto-u.ac.jp (maintainer)  

## Reference
```
@article {Matsumoto2020,
  author = {Matsumoto, Shigeyuki and Ishida, Shoichi and Araki, Mitsugu and Kato, Takayuki and Terayama, Kei and Okuno, Yasushi},
  title = {Extraction of Protein Dynamics Information Hidden in Cryo-EM Map Using Deep Learning},
  year = {2020},
  doi = {10.1101/2020.02.17.951863},
  URL = {https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2020/02/18/2020.02.17.951863},
  journal = {bioRxiv}
}
```
